outside Chicago's United Center
protesters for an array of causes
gathered to demonstrate against the
Democrats the first protests of the day
led to the first breach of a security
barrier as protesters tore down a fence
between them and the
convention that led to the first
arrests and that led to a police
Crackdown that cleared a nearby park
oh the
occupation on Sunday and Monday
thousands marched against poverty for
LGBT rights and against Israel's war on
Gaza including this teacher a lot of the
students uh don't have housing or don't
have adequate food at home don't have
adequate healthare and yet the
government findes billions and billions
of dollars to spend on massacring
children in Palestine so you know
there's something wrong with that and we
we need to fight against it among the
protesters was presidential candidate
Stein of the green party this is a
gathering of working people homeless
people the Poor People's Army who
marched here from Milwaukee uh to bring
you know the real issues of poverty and
homelessness and lack of Health Care and
student debt and medical debt and all
that that we don't hear a word about
actually from you know from the uh
Harris Trump uh you know uh campaigns
thousands of Chicago Police controlled
the the streets with bikes with riot
gear and what appeared to be a measure
of restraint as when a supervisor off
camera told officers not to arrest this
man no hey Andre Andre no this is a
standoff between protesters and police
that officer is holding a sign telling
them they are being ordered to disperse
these protesters are not doing that and
there are plenty of police to reinforce
that order we're taking did that Mo back
me the tension eased when protesters
agreed to remove a tent encampment for
some it was a teaching moment we're
mobilizing human beings are mobilizing
over around a cause that is so uh sounds
so so basic right like to protect human
rights and and so this has been a Great
Awakening for a lot of my you know the
people that are here and my children to
see it firsthand uh you can't you can't
teach us in the books so that's why
we're
here time and time again police avoided
repeating the bloody crackdowns of the
1968 convention here mindful of the
city's reputation but knowing there are
many more protests to come John hendin
Al jazer
Chicago make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer